# Bitcoin-Price-Predictor-Project
Kate Waltman, a New York-based certified public accountant who specializes in crypto, told us back in November 2021. But now, experts anticipate bitcoin to end up far away from the $100,000 mark in 2023.
Cryptocurrencies are a digital way of money in which all transactions are held electronically. It is a soft currency which doesn’t exist in the form of hard notes physically. Here, we are emphasizing the difference of fiat currency which is decentralized that without any third-party intervention all virtual currency users can get the services. However, getting services of these cryptocurrencies impacts on international relations and trade, due to its high price volatility. There are several virtual currencies such as bitcoin, ripple, ethereum, ethereum classic, lite coin, etc. In our study, we especially focused on a popular cryptocurrency, i.e., bitcoin. From many types of virtual currencies, bitcoin has a great acceptance by different bodies such as investors, researchers, traders, and policy-makers. To the best of our knowledge, our target is to implement the efficient deep learning-based prediction models specifically long short-term memory (LSTM) and gated recurrent unit (GRU) to handle the price volatility of bitcoin and to obtain high accuracy. Our study involves comparing these two time series deep learning techniques and proved the efficacy in forecasting the price of bitcoin.
We have all considered where bitcoin costs will be one year, two years, five years or even 10 years from now. It's really difficult to anticipate however each and every one of us loves to do it. Tremendous measures of benefits can be made by purchasing and selling bitcoins, whenever done accurately.. It has been proven to be a fortune for many people in the past and is still making them a lot of money today. But this doesn’t come without its downside too. If not thought of and calculated properly, you can lose a lot of money too. You should have an incredible comprehension of how and precisely why bitcoin costs change (organic market, guidelines, news, and so forth), which implies you should realize how individuals make their bitcoin predictions. Considering these things (supply and demand, regulations, news, etc.), one must also think about the technology of bitcoin and its progress. This aside, we now have to deal with the technical parts using various algorithms and technologies which can predict precise bitcoin prices. Although we came across various models which are currently present like Biological neural networks. (BNN), Recurrent neural network (RNN), Long short-term memory (LSTM), Auto regressive integrated moving average (ARIMA), etc. with machine learning and deep neural network concepts. Normally a time series is a sequence of numbers along time. This is due to the fact that this being a time series data set, the overall data sets should be split into two parts: inputs and outputs.Moreover, LSTM is great in comparison with the classic statistics linear models, since it can very easily handle multiple input forecasting problems.

In the approach which we are following, the LSTM will use the previous data to predict bitcoin prices 30 days ahead of it’s closing price. In the approach used by us, we implement Bayesian optimized Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) and a Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) network. The highest classification accuracy is achieved by LSTM with the accuracy of 52% and a RMSE of 8%. Presently we execute the famous Auto backward incorporated moving normal (ARIMA) model for time arrangement gauging as a correlation with the profound learning models. The ARIMA forecast is out performed by the nonlinear deep learning methods which performed much better. Finally both the profound learning models are benchmarked on both a GPU and CPU. The training time on the CPU is outflanked by the GPU execution by 67.7%. In the base papers selected by us, the author collected a data set of over 25 features relating to the bitcoin price and payment network over a period of five years, recorded on a daily basis were able to predict the sign of the daily bitcoin price change with an incredible accuracy of 98.7%.

In the second period of our examination we are just focusing in on the bitcoin price information alone and utilized information at 10 minutes and 10 seconds time frame.. This is due to the fact that we saw an incredible opportunity to precisely evaluate price predictions at various levels of granularity and noisiness are modelling. This resulted in incredible results which had 50 to 55% accuracy in precisely predicting the future bitcoin price changes using 10 minute time intervals.
